---
title: xEdit Overview
description: "xEdit is an advanced graphical module viewer/editor and conflict detector."
category: guide
---


xEdit, including variants like SSEEdit, is a comprehensive tool for modding Bethesda games, acting
as both a graphical module editor and a conflict detector. It's essential for modders and authors,
streamlining the process of identifying and resolving mod conflicts, cleaning and merging mod files,
converting ESP files to ESM, and checking for errors. These features are critical for maintaining
mod quality and compatibility, especially in games like Fallout 4, Skyrim Special Edition, and
Starfield.

For mod authors, xEdit offers deep insight into mod files, enabling the removal of unnecessary
records and the merging of mods, ensuring clean and conflict-free mods. For players, it simplifies
mod management, reducing crashes and improving game stability. Overall, xEdit enhances mod
interoperability, benefiting the entire modding community.

Learning to use xEdit is a worthwhile investment for anyone involved in modding. It's not just about
improving your gaming experience; it's about contributing positively to the modding community. While
xEdit requires a bit of learning, the payoff in terms of game stability and mod compatibility is
substantial. So, grab a coffee and let's dive into xEdit – your effort will greatly benefit both
your modding projects and the wider community.

xEdit is a tool designed for modifying and fixing game files for Bethesda games. It works by opening
game files, showing their details in an easy-to-use interface, and allowing users to edit or clean
up these files. This means you can fix errors, remove unnecessary data, or even create new content
for games.

The tool started as TES4Edit for the game Oblivion, created by ElminsterAU. Over time, with help
from others like Hlp, Sharlikran, and Zilav, it expanded to support more games, including various
Fallout titles, Skyrim, Skyrim SE, and Starfield. Each version has a different name (like FO4Edit
for Fallout 4), but they all do the same thing and are collectively known as xEdit.

Regardless of which Bethesda game you're modding, you'll use the same xEdit program—it just has
different names based on the game. This makes it a versatile tool for anyone looking to improve
their modding projects or fix issues in their game files.



{/* xEdit is short for any version for example SSEEdit. xEdit is an advanced graphical module
viewer/editor and conflict detector, with many additional functions that make it akin to a
Swiss-army knife for modders and mod-authors alike. The primary function of xEdit is to help you
spot conflicts between mods and resolve them, as well as to prepare your mod-list for a smooth
run-time.

For the mod author xEdit provides the capability of viewing mod files at great depth, cleaning mod
files of extraneous and duplicated records, merging mods together, changing ESPs to ESMs and
scanning references in mod files for reach ability, form errors and specific references. These
functions are very important to mod authors in the Fallout3 environment, as they will clean the mod
of unintended changes, erroneous records and potential conflicts with other mainstream mods that
players run.

Thus, whether you use mods to enhance your gaming experience or create mods for others to enjoy,
using xEdit is both a wise investment in time and a beneficial act for the modding community.
Authors who clean and prepare their mods with xEdit will experience fewer conflict and compatibility
problems once published, and Players who de-conflict their load orders are much less likely to
experience crashes and headaches. In general, the use of xEdit can only improve the
inter-operability of all mods, and this can only be a good thing.

If I have not convinced you by now to invest an evening to learn how to use xEdit, then you should
be sacked and have a live Nuka-grenade stuffed down your trousers. If however you wish to do the
right thing by the modding community, grab a coffee and let's get to work! xEdit is not a difficult
tool to use, but it does require that your CPU (brain) be involved in the process, and that is what
this tutorial is designed to teach.



xEdit is an advanced tool for the analysis and editing of Bethesda's game plugins. It operates by
loading one or more plugins (.esl/.esp) and their respective masters (.esm), then presenting their
contents within a dedicated user interface. This tool offers an organized layout and practical
navigation controls to visualize the data within the loaded plugins. Moreover, it provides robust
editing capabilities, enabling the ability to clean, modify, or even create new plugins for mods and
mod patches.

xEdit originally emerged under the development of ElminsterAU as "TES4Edit" for Oblivion. Over time,
and thanks to the contributions of authors Hlp, Sharlikran, and Zilav, xEdit was updated to support
various Bethesda titles: Fallout 3 (FO3Edit), Fallout New Vegas (FNVEdit), Fallout 4 (FO4Edit),
Skyrim (TES5Edit), Skyrim SE (SSEEdit), and Starfield (SF1Edit). Within the modding community, all
these versions of the tool are collectively referred to as "xEdit." Consequently, the term xEdit is
often used to discuss the tool, regardless of the specific game version it pertains to. It's
important to note that no matter which version is downloaded, they all share the same executable
bearing different names.  */}




